                                     CHAPTER 1




                                  INTRODUCTION




1.1    Introduction


       Mandarin is not only a language but a key to future opportunities, as it is
spoken by more than one billion people and is gaining significant importance in
business, technology, and culture around the world. The growing importance of
China as an economic power, a leader in manufacturing and artificial intelligence,
and its increasing influence in the cultural arena opens doors to career opportunities for
Mandarin speakers. However, many learners perceive the language as too complicated
, both in its tonal pronunciation and its complex character system , making it seem
impossible to master.


       The studies in language acquisition have indicated that exposure to authentic
content is the most effective way to learn a language [1, 2]. Here authentic means that
the material is genuine (real) and originally written for native speakers (books, movies,
news articles, podcasts, conversations, etc.), not simplified or made-up for language
learners. If students are interested in the materials, they will be more motivated and
will retain more. This natural learning approach mirrors how children acquire their
first language: through immersion, not memorization [3, 4].


       Many students encounter difficulties when learning through traditional methods.
Textbooks and classrooms tend to focus more on grammar rules than on exposure to
natural language. While some translation applications now exist, they struggle with
the specific demands of Mandarin. The character system poses a significant challenge
because written characters bear no resemblance to their spoken sounds. Pinyin is
available as a pronunciation guide but is seldom encountered outside the classroom.




                                            1
        LexiFlow addresses these challenges through a web platform that integrates
sentence segmentation and machine translation models. The system receives audio,
segments it into sentences, and processes each one separately. This will help to increase
accuracy and reduce the computing resources required. The system then maintains a
repository of previously processed material to avoid reprocessing and to surface content
tailored to students’ interests and abilities.




1.2     Problem Background


        The lecturer of language at UTM has noticed a problem with the development
of language among the students at UTM. Many students can master grammar rules and
vocabulary for written exams but have trouble in real Mandarin conversations. This
disparity between students’ academic performance and their communication skills is
a hindrance to learning. Authentic content exposes students to vocabulary, natural
speech patterns, and cultural context that textbooks cannot provide, especially when
the content aligns with students’ own interests, making the language more engaging.


        The current method of producing Mandarin learning content is still time-
consuming.     Lecturers start by gathering authentic audio or video sources, often
spending considerable time finding appropriate content.        After selecting content,
teachers manually transcribe the spoken Mandarin and add pinyin annotations and
translations. This process can take as long as 8-10 hours for just a few minutes of
content and can put a significant strain on teachers.


        These challenges are not met by existing solutions. Popular platforms such
as LanguageReactor rely heavily on the availability of YouTube subtitles, which are
far harder to find for Mandarin content than for English. As for general transcription
services, for example the ones at Transcribe.com, they transcribe material without the
time-stamped subtitle format that students find useful in mapping spoken sounds to
written text, and they do not support pinyin, which is essential for Mandarin learners
to learn how to pronounce the text.




                                                 2
       Students need a system that effectively processes authentic Mandarin content
and presents both its spoken form and written representation. The solution should
include accurate transcriptions and timings, pinyin pronunciation guides, and quality
translations that link naturally spoken Mandarin with its written form.




1.3    Project Aim


       The aim of this project is to create a web platform called LexiFlow for the
processing, transcription, and translation of authentic Mandarin content using advanced
sentence-level segmentation and translation models, in order to help students understand
authentic Mandarin dialogues in real-world contexts.




1.4    Project Objectives


       The objectives of the project are:


(a)    To identify and gather requirements from primary stakeholders, including
       language learners and educators.

(b)    To design a web-based platform with a user interface and a database that provides
       synchronized, time-stamped bilingual subtitles.

(c)    To develop a web platform based on stakeholder requirements, adding
       features such as audio/video processing, transcription, translation, and pinyin
       generation.

(d)    To test and validate the platform using testing methodologies and domain
       expert’s feedback to ensure accuracy in transcription, translation, and subtitle
       synchronization.




                                            3
1.5    Project Scopes


       The scopes of the project are:


(a)    The proposed platform will accept long-form audio or video input (up to 120
       minutes) from user-uploaded files or YouTube URLs.

(b)    The proposed platform will perform voice activity detection (VAD) and end-
       of-sentence detection to segment audio into linguistically meaningful sentence-
       level chunks.

(c)    The proposed platform will generate transcriptions using automatic speech
       recognition (ASR) and translations via a Neural Machine Translation (NMT)
       model.

(d)    The proposed platform will produce synchronized, timestamped bilingual
       subtitles with original language text, target-language translation and pinyin
       annotations by utilizing the transformer model.

(e)    The proposed platform will store processed subtitles in a searchable database
       indexed by content identifiers (e.g., URLs) to enable instant reuse without
       reprocessing.

(f)    The proposed platform will provide a web interface for uploading content and
       customizing subtitle outputs.




1.6    Project Importance


       The LexiFlow project is significant as it seeks to improve the language learner’s
experience. LexiFlow will be able to address the issue of scarce resources from online
platforms and lecturers. With integration of machine translation models for translation
and transcription, LexiFlow will enable students to learn from content they are interested
in learning from.




                                            4
1.7    Report Organization


       The thesis consists of five well-rounded chapters. Chapter 1 presents the project
and provides background, purpose, objectives, scope, importance and structure of the
report. Chapter 2 presents an extensive literature review on the current systems and
technologies pertaining to speech recognition, translation models, and user interfaces,
and finally a comparison with the available market solutions.


       The system development methodology is described in chapter 3 which highlights
the selected software development life cycle, the reasons for the choice of method and
the major systems development stages. Chapter 4 provides an in-depth exploration
of requirements analysis and system design, covering functional requirements, non-
functional requirements, database design, and user interface requirements, all aimed at
guaranteeing usability and functionality.


       In the last chapter (Chapter 5), the findings from the paper are summarized,
the project outcomes discussed and recommendations made for improvements to
further develop and extend the LexiFlow system. This structure ensures a logical
progression from conceptualization through implementation and evaluation, with
detailed discussion of all project aspects.




                                              5
                                      CHAPTER 2




                               LITERATURE REVIEW




2.1     Introduction


        A review of the relevant literature and technologies has been conducted to
examine existing work pertaining to the development of the LexiFlow system. It begins
with a review of theories and models of second language acquisition that are relevant
to the design of any L2 learning material. It then underscores the problems associated
with symbolic language and discusses the existing methods and systems in the area of
language acquisition. The purpose of this literature review is to give a foundation of
theory and to highlight gaps that LexiFlow is looking to fill.




2.2     Theories of Second Language Acquisition


2.2.1   Krashen’s Input Hypothesis


        LexiFlow is based on one of the main theories behind language learning, the
Input Hypothesis [1]. The hypothesis is that language learning takes place when
learners are exposed to comprehensible input. In this context, the term comprehensible
input is defined as input material that is at just one step above the learner’s current level
(i+1). According to this theory, acquisition of grammatical structures occurs naturally
when learners are exposed to them, without formal teaching. This is based on the way
children learn their first language, hearing and engaging with language in context.


        Consider, for example, an HSK 2 student who can handle simple, everyday
conversations. Based on the ”i+1” principle by Krashen, such a learner acquires
language most effectively when exposed to content at approximately HSK 3 level ,



                                             6
introducing new vocabulary and grammatical patterns in manageable quantities while
still containing familiar elements.


       Table 2.1 summarizes the vocabulary requirements for each HSK (Hanyu
Shuiping Kaoshi) level, which is the standardized Chinese proficiency test. As shown,
each level builds cumulatively on the previous one. For example, a student at HSK 2
has mastered 300 words in total, while HSK 3 requires knowledge of 600 words.


                  Table 2.1   HSK 2.0 Vocabulary Requirements [5]
             Current Level (i)    Vocabulary Size    Cumulative Words
             HSK 1                150 words          150 words
             HSK 2                150 words          300 words
             HSK 3                300 words          600 words
             HSK 4                600 words          1,200 words
             HSK 5                1,300 words        2,500 words
             HSK 6                2,500 words        5,000 words



       Numerous studies have validated this theory. For example, Rodrigo et al. [6]
demonstrated that extensive exposure to comprehensible input through reading resulted
in significantly greater vocabulary acquisition compared to traditional instructional
methods. Similarly, [7] found that students exposed to extensive comprehensible input
outperformed those following traditional grammar-translation methods, even when
tested on grammatical knowledge.


       However, for Mandarin, the challenge lies in finding authentic content that is
both engaging and comprehensible. Figure 2.1 is a perfect example of the Mandarin
learning dilemma that LexiFlow aims to solve. Here we see a YouTube video which
can be labeled as comprehensible input, with Chinese characters displayed as subtitles
at the bottom of the screen. Crucially, these subtitles lack any Pinyin pronunciation
guide, rendering them inaccessible to beginner and intermediate learners who haven’t
yet mastered thousands of characters. In addition, the video is not tailored to any
specific proficiency level, and the subtitles option is disabled, making the use of any
current translation tools impossible.



                                          7
        Figure 2.2 shows an example of proper subtitles, which are hand-made by
a YouTube channel. However, this process is extremely time-consuming and labor-
intensive, making such content very rare and resulting in a very limited library of
available resources.




                Figure 2.1   Example of Mandarin Learning Dilemma




                Figure 2.2   Example of Proper Subtitles with Pinyin




2.2.2   Multimedia Learning Theory


        Mayer’s Multimedia Learning Theory [2] provides another crucial theoretical
pillar for LexiFlow’s approach. This theory proposes that people learn more deeply


                                         8
from words and pictures together than from words alone, particularly when the verbal
and visual elements are presented simultaneously rather than successively.


        Jones and Plass [8] showed that students’ vocabulary retention improved by
42% when using both visual cues and written text, as opposed to learning from the
written text alone. In character-based languages, Shen [9] concluded that a multimedia
presentation linking spoken words, written characters, and visual representations was
35% more effective for character recognition than traditional methods.


        In addition, [10] demonstrated that Mandarin learners achieved higher scores
on listening comprehension tests when they were provided with subtitles for practice.
This finding supports LexiFlow’s approach of providing synchronized multimodal input
through transcription and translation.




2.3     Challenges for Mandarin as Symbolic Language


2.3.1   Character Recognition and Sound Awareness


        Many learners are thrown a curve by the logographic system of writing used in
Mandarin, as opposed to alphabetic writing systems, in which written symbols directly
represent sounds. According to Everson [11], a Western learner typically needs to
encounter a Chinese character approximately 17 times before reliably recognizing it,
compared to only 8 exposures for words in alphabetic scripts. This added ”mental load”
is due to the visual complexity of the characters.


        Since there is a gap between written and spoken Mandarin, linguists have termed
it the ‘orthographic barrier’ [12]. This barrier hinders learning effectiveness: students
may understand spoken vocabulary yet remain unable to connect it to its written form.
As a stepping stone to this change, pinyin has become an important tool, but Ye
[13] noted that 76% of intermediate learners still experienced problems in accessing
character-only materials without the aid of pinyin.



                                           9
        LexiFlow overcomes this difficulty by keeping the important link between
the sounds, pinyin and characters for authentic content, enabling learners to slowly
develop their ability to recognize characters while also working with phonological
representations to access meaningful content.




2.3.2   Tonal Perception and Production


        Another major difficulty in the literature noted is Mandarin’s tonal quality.
Wang [14] has shown that adult learners from non-tonal language backgrounds require
explicit training to accurately perceive and produce Mandarin’s four tones. They found
that beginners’ accuracy in recognizing tones was still under 40 percent after 200 hours
of classroom learning, without explicit training.


        Tone is typically handled in textbooks by isolated examples or in perfectly
prepared dialogues. These methods are unnatural ways to speak the language. LexiFlow
provides authentic content with pinyin annotations that include tone markers, offering
students meaningful opportunities to develop tonal awareness.




2.4     Current System Analysis


        The model in which students learn from authentic content is facing great
difficulties both for students and teachers. The current process, observed through
interviews with Mandarin language teachers at UTM, requires considerable manual
effort and yields a limited content library.




2.4.1   Problem with Current System


        Current practice in embedding authentic Mandarin content into learning is very
labour intensive, resource intensive and has limited quantity and quality of authentic
materials available. The process as it is today (AS-IS) starts with either the instructors

                                               10
or motivated students looking for potentially suitable authentic content (as illustrated
in the AS-IS swimlane diagram Figure 2.3). The search process is time-consuming
and may return content that is not sufficiently levelled to meet the language proficiency
requirements.




                        Figure 2.3     AS-IS Swimlane Diagram



        After content is identified, the real challenges start. The Mandarin audio must
be manually transcribed, and instructors must add pinyin annotations and translations,
which may take 8-10 hours for a 5-minute video. The volume of transcription work
required makes it very difficult to provide a lot of content to students. If students are
trying to go through this process alone, there are more obstacles to their understanding
because there is no instant feedback.


        The resulting materials often lack synchronized timelines that would enable
learners to link the spoken and written words together. In addition, the material is
often pitched at a level accessible only to more advanced students, leaving intermediate
learners without suitable resources.




2.4.2   Proposed Solution


        LexiFlow solves these inefficiencies by using technology to automate the most
time-intensive parts of content processing, all without compromising quality. The


                                           11
proposed system is designed to simplify the workflow, allowing both instructors and
students to make full use of it (Figure 2.4).




                        Figure 2.4   TO-BE Swimlane Diagram



        The process starts from the users submitting their actual Mandarin audio or
video material to the platform. LexiFlow then automatically segments the audio
into sentence-level units using voice activity detection algorithms. Each segment
is individually transcribed by ASR, annotated with pinyin, and translated into English
by NMT.


        All processed material is stored in an indexed database which means that the
same processed material doesn’t need to be processed again if many users are accessing
the same content. This allows for a growing ecosystem of content that becomes self-
serving and expands according to user interests and needs.




2.4.3   Comparison of Similar Video-Based Learning Platforms


        There have been a number of attempts to employ video in the learning of a
foreign language, each with varying degrees of success. As shown by Xu and Hu [15]
who analyzed FluentU, the video libraries selected with interactive transcripts proved
to be more effective in boosting listening fluency than audio exercises. Yet, the study
also revealed a lack of content as a barrier, and advanced learners voiced complaints
of lack of variety of content. The FluentU video browser, as seen in Figure 2.5, shows


                                            12
the platform’s library of videos curated by FluentU. The video is shown in Figure 2.6
with interactive transcripts and words of interest.




                  Figure 2.5     FluentU Platform Video Browse Page




                    Figure 2.6    FluentU Platform Video Example




                                           13
         LanguageReactor (formerly Language Learning with Netflix), as examined
by Dizon and Gayed [16], is a free browser extension that allows users to overlay
bilingual subtitles on Netflix and YouTube videos. It provides basic tools for vocabulary
lookup and sentence by sentence playback. Unfortunately, it heavily relies on the
availability of pre-existing subtitles and does not generate its own. This results in
inconsistent subtitle quality. Figure 2.7 shows the LanguageReactor settings page,
which allows users to customize subtitle options. Figure 2.8 shows an example of a video
on the LanguageReactor platform, which includes bilingual subtitles and vocabulary
tools.




              Figure 2.7   LanguageReactor Settings Page From Netflix




                                           14
                 Figure 2.8   LanguageReactor Example From Netflix




       Yabla is a subscription-based service that offers a curated video content library
with interactive features. Research by Pujadas and Muñoz [17] demonstrated that
Yabla’s approach leads to better vocabulary retention compared to traditional video
viewing methods. Although it provides a polished interface and well produced content,
it is limited to a petite library of content that is lacking in scope and variety. However,
the platform provides custom-created subtitles rather than relying entirely on third-
party sources, which results in higher accuracy than LanguageReactor. Figure 2.9
shows the Yabla platform’s video browse page, which highlights its curated library of
videos. Figure 2.10 shows an example of a video on the Yabla platform, which includes
interactive playback controls and vocabulary tools. the playback controls allow users
to slow down or repeat specific segments, enhancing comprehension and retention.




                                            15
                        Figure 2.9   Yabla Platform Example




                    Figure 2.10    Yabla Platform Video Example




       The three systems already in place all make use of video content to learn a
language, but they demonstrate distinct strategies to deal with the same core issue: the
provision of engaging authentic video content supported by accurate language. The



                                          16
three platforms all rely on existing or manually created subtitlesas shown in table 2.2.
This leads to a content bottleneck that may have a negative impact on Mandarin
learners because there is not enough content with subtitles, especially when compared
to European languages such as French and German.


             Table 2.2   Language Learning Platform Feature Comparison
 Feature         Lang.Reactor    FluentU         Yabla              LexiFlow*
 Content Source YT/Netflix subs Closed library Curated videos       Any Mandarin audio
 Pinyin Support Word-level        Full          Full                Full
 Processing      Existing subs    Manual        Manual              Auto segmentation
 Growth          Subtitle-limited Slow manual Slow manual           Exponential User-driven
 Efficiency      High             Low           Low                 Medium
 Cost            Freemium         Sub only      Sub only            Freemium
 Personalization Basic vocab      Adaptive quiz Playback controls   Interest-based

* Proposed solution



        The automatic subtitle generation feature of LexiFlow enhances the existing
platforms by removing the need for having pre-existing subtitles for any Mandarin
audio/video content. Unlike other platforms that manage to upload and process content
manually, this enables the content library to expand rapidly as more users upload
and process their own content. LexiFlow operates under a freemium pricing model,
providing people with free access to the basic features, and premium features such as
flashcards and personalized quizzes for premium users. It also tailors learning to the
user’s interests, tracks vocabulary that users have saved, and then suggests matching
material and customizes study material – which makes learning more interesting and
effective.




2.5     Technologies for Video-Based Learning Platform


2.5.1   Voice Activity Detection and Sentence Segmentation


        VAD systems play crucial roles in several modern voice recognition frameworks,
which detect speech and non-speech segments frame-by-frame and initiate subsequent
actions such as speech recognition or endpointing. [18, 19, 20, 21]


                                           17
        For Mandarin, Pan et al. [22] have shown that their system that splits the speech
data into smaller segments based on the Silero-VAD model [23] has better performance
in boundary detection than a typical system. They discovered that they could get more
accurate results by doing sentence-level segmentation rather than processing longer
units. This figures into the segment-by-segment approach of LexiFlow.




2.5.2   Automatic Speech Recognition for Mandarin


        Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) was developed from basic systems that
responded to a select few sounds to the modern systems that engage and interact with
spoken languages. There has been a growing interest in ASR technology due to the
desire to automate simple tasks that involve human-machine interaction [24].


        OpenAI’s Whisper [25] is an automatic speech recognition (ASR) system
trained on 680,000 hours of multilingual and multitask supervised data collected from
the web. The Whisper architecture is a simple end-to-end approach, implemented as
an encoder-decoder Transformer. This architecture is used to transcribe and identify
languages with high accuracy, even in noisy or demanding audio environments.


        For educational applications, Sutomo [26] discovered that even with character
error rates of 6–10%, learners stated that ASR-generated transcripts were sufficient for
understanding. This finding indicates that current ASR technology has reached the
point of being usable in language learning applications such as LexiFlow.




2.5.3   Neural Machine Translation


        Neural Machine Translation (NMT) has significantly improved the quality
and dependability of automated translation services.       According to Hassan et al.
[27], contemporary NMT systems have achieved human parity in Chinese-English
translation for news domain content, marking a significant milestone for cross-linguistic
applications.

                                           18
        Barrault et al. [28] introduced SeamlessM4T v2, Meta’s massively multilingual
and multimodal machine translation model, designed to provide high-quality, real-time
translation across speech and text in nearly 100 languages. The v2 release features
the UnitY2 architecture, which includes hierarchical character-to-unit upsampling and
non-autoregressive decoding.


        Importantly for LexiFlow, Murtisari et al. [29] showed that even when
translations had small faults, showing learners both the source text and machine
translations increased comprehension compared to source-only presentation. This
result demonstrates that LexiFlow’s strategy of offering translations in addition to the
original Mandarin content works well.




2.5.4   NoSQL Database Implementation


        NoSQL databases offer numerous benefits over traditional relational databases
in the context of modern video-based learning platforms, such as flexibility, scalability,
and performance. NoSQL systems do not require a fixed schema, which is ideal for
storing content with varying types, like video metadata, user interactions, and dynamic
learning analytics.


        For unstructured and semi-structured data, NoSQL databases like document
stores such as MongoDB are suitable to efficiently store and retrieve multimedia content,
user profiles and session logs. This distributed architecture provides for high availability
and horizontal scaling, essential for platforms with large numbers of users and a
growing amount of content. Further, a key-value NoSQL database is good for read/write
performance in real-time analytics, and a graph database can represent relations between
concepts, users, and learning materials.




                                            19
2.6    Summary


       This literature review has established several key findings that inform
LexiFlow’s development. First, it was established that Krashen’s Input Hypothesis and
Multimedia Learning Theory provide strong theoretical foundations for LexiFlow’s
approach. After that, Mandarin’s symbolic writing system and its unique challenges
were discussed. Furthermore, the current language learning applications and their
limitations were carefully examined. Finally, this literature review concluded with
a discussion of recent advancements in Voice Activity Detection, Automatic Speech
Recognition, and Neural Machine Translation and the models which are planned to
be used in the system. This review establishes both the need for and the feasibility
of LexiFlow’s approach to Mandarin language learning through efficient processing
of authentic content. The next chapter will detail the methodological approach to
implementing these insights in the LexiFlow system.




                                         20
                                     CHAPTER 3




                 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT METHODOLOGY




3.1    Introduction


       This chapter outlines the methodology used in the development of LexiFlow to
ensure the successful implementation of the system. The chapter begins by explaining
why the hybrid Agile model was selected and why combining elements of Agile and
traditional project management is appropriate for achieving a balance between flexibility
and structured milestones. Therefore, each phase of the adopted methodology will be
elaborately discussed, which in effect will give an overall comprehensive framework
that guides the development of the project from initial requirements gathering to the
final stage of testing and deployment of the system.


       The methodology section further explains how the chosen technologies fit
within the Agile processes and align with the overall LexiFlow system. With this,
the technology stack would support the functionality of the application.




3.2    Methodology Choice and Justification


       LexiFlow’s development follows the hybrid Agile model, as it allowed for
flexibility to adapt to evolving requirements, while also providing structured milestones.
This approach allows for iterative development, allowing for ongoing feedback and
refinement throughout the project lifecycle. Agile is well suited to software projects
where the needs of the users can change, because it focuses on collaboration, customer
involvement and adaptation to change.


       As reported by Singhto and Phakdee [30] implementing Scrum might help
to enhance software product quality, communication and cooperation. Waterfall’s

                                           21
benefits are that the phases are arranged in order to help new developers get a complete
understanding of the ‘big picture‘ of software project management, throughout the
Software Development Life Cycle. This also fosters a much deeper understanding of
the requirements, code logic and software testing.


        Throughout the development process, the following principles of Agile will be
used: regular sprints, user stories, and continuous integration. The project will also be
managed using traditional project management practices, including detailed planning
and documentation, to ensure that all aspects of the system are well covered, as shown
in figure 3.1.




                 Figure 3.1   Hybrid-Scrum Methodology Overview [31]




3.3     Methodology Phases


        LexiFlow will be developed using a hybrid approach:


(a)     Planning (Waterfall): This phase prepares the overall project. It involves
        a preliminary project scoping, time estimation, stakeholder identification and
        resource assignment. The planning process follows a Waterfall method, with
        all the planning steps of the roadmap being planned in advance to give a clear
        direction of the project at the start.



                                             22
(b)    Analysis (Waterfall): This is the part of the project where all the project
       requirements will be studied thoroughly and recorded in a waterfall method
       of development. The process involves all stakeholders, language learners and
       lecturers, in a detailed interview/survey to try to define all functional and non-
       functional requirements as thoroughly as possible.

(c)    Initial Design (Waterfall): After requirements are established, project will go
       directly into design phase using the Waterfall method. This step creates a high
       level design of the system as a whole, and this sets out how each component
       interfaces with the other components of the system. This can be extremely
       appropriate for the user requirements, so that each part of the system is well
       defined and ready to go into development.

(d)    Actual Sprints (Agile): The development will take place in six sprints (Agile):

       (i)    Sprint 1 Prototype Sprint: Sprint 1 involves creating an initial prototype
              with basic functions to test the assumptions of the early design, to collect
              feedback and to verify the performance of the selected models.

      (ii)    Sprint 2 User Module: This sprint is dedicated to implementing user
              registration, login and profile management. It enables both students and
              lecturers to create and manage their accounts and learning preferences.

      (iii)   Sprint 3        Content Processing Module:       During this sprint, the
              functionality to upload local media and submit the link to the YouTube
              website is implemented. The content will be processed by the system
              and produce synchronized subtitles in Mandarin, pinyin, and English
              translation.

      (iv)    Sprint 4       Interactive Learning Module: This sprint will deliver the
              interactive learing module, implementing features such as word search,
              bookmarking segenents, and reporting incorrect translations.

       (v)    Sprint 5 Assessment Module: This sprint will contain the fucntional
              testing and user acceptance testing. This will involve testing with users
              and stakeholders.

      (vi)    Sprint 6    Deployment Sprint: This sprint will involve deploying the
              system to live servers and tesing the live deployment.



                                           23
(e)    Burn Down Chart (Agile): A burn down chart is also provided for the Agile
       method to show what tasks remain to be completed over time during each sprint.
       This visual tool can be used by the team to track progress on a day-to-day basis,
       to identify any bottlenecks quickly, and to make sure the sprint is progressing to
       the desired direction and toward the desired outcome. It is also a good reference
       point for the Sprint Review.

(f)    Sprint Review (Agile): During Sprint Review, features added to the application
       are shown to the stakeholders at the end of each sprint. The input from their
       feedback is captured and incorporated into the next set of sprint goals, thus
       keeping them in line with what users expect.

(g)    Sprint Retrospective (Agile): After every Sprint Review, the team has Sprint
       Retrospective, which is an agile process that helps the team evaluate what they
       did well, what they did not do well, and what they can do better in the next
       Sprint. This helps to foster ongoing improvements and teamwork.

(h)    Maintenance (Agile):         After deployment, the system will go into the
       maintenance phase, which is also called ”Agile”. The addition of bugs fixes,
       user feedback and new features will be provided in incremental releases using
       Agile practices, and will keep the product strong and user-focused over time.


       Gannt chart in Figure 3.2 shows the timeline of the FYP 1 and the prototype
sprint while Figure 3.3 shows the timeline of FYP 2. The Gannt chart is created using
Jira, which is a project management tool that helps to track the progress of the project
and manage the tasks effectively.




                                          24
Figure 3.2   Gantt Chart FYP1




Figure 3.3   Gantt Chart FYP2



              25
       The first sprint is the prototype sprint, which is already completed. The burn
down chart is shown in Figure 3.4. The burn down chart shows the progress of
the project and the remaining tasks to be completed. Also, the sprint review with the
stakeholders is completed. The feedback from the stakeholder is shown in Appendix ??.




               Figure 3.4   Burn Down Chart for Sprint 1 (Prototype)




3.4    Technology Stack


       This section describes the technologies used in the development of the LexiFlow
system. The following technologies were identified for their capacity to meet the
project’s requirements:


(a)    React 18: A JavaScript library for creating user interfaces. React 18 was chosen
       for its component-based architecture and concurrent rendering capabilities. It
       will be used to create the frontend of the web application.

(b)    Node.js: a JavaScript runtime based on Chrome’s V8 engine, chosen for its
       non-blocking, event-driven architecture, which makes it suitable for developing
       scalable network applications. It will be used for server-side logic and user
       request management. Furthermore, it will act as the control center of our
       backend services, handling requests from the frontend and coordinating with
       the database and python microservices.




                                          26
(c)    MongoDB: MongoDB is a document database designed to help developers
       build modern applications faster.         It stores data in flexible, JSON-like
       documents, making it easy to model data the same way your application code
       uses it. The flexible schema lets you evolve your data model without downtime,
       iterate quickly, and easily handle non-uniform data.

(d)    FastApi: A modern, high-performance web framework that aims to simplify the
       development of APIs with Python, using standard Python type hints. FastAPI
       was chosen because of its ease of use and automatic documentation creation. It
       will be used by the backend services to convert the python scripts into RESTful
       APIs, allowing our Node.js server to communicate with the services that handle
       audio processing, transcription, and translation.

(e)    SileroVAD: Silero VAD works effectively with audios from a variety of domains
       with a range of background noise and quality levels. It was trained on a massive
       dataset that included over 6000 languages. It was chosen for its high accuracy
       and ease of use. It will be used to detect speech segments and segment them
       into sentence-level chunks.

(f)    Whisper: a powerful automated speech recognition system that was trained on
       a diverse dataset of multilingual speech data. It was chosen for its high accuracy
       and ability to handle various languages and accents. It will be used to transcribe
       the audio content into text, providing the foundation for further processing.

(g)    SeamlessM4Tv2: The SeamlessM4T-v2 model was proposed in [32] by the
       Seamless Communication team from Meta AI. SeamlessM4T-v2 is a collection
       of models designed to provide high quality translation, allowing people from
       different linguistic communities to communicate effortlessly through speech
       and text. It is an improvement on the previous version.

(h)    PyPinyin: pypinyin is a Chinese Pinyin conversion tool that supports multiple
       lexicons, multiple output formats, and custom word group Pinyin libraries or
       single-character Pinyin libraries.


       LexiFlow’s development process employs automated workflows, ensuring
smooth updates. First, developers commit changes to the code to version control
in Git, as is illustrated in Figure 3.5. The code is then automatically built and tested on


                                            27
GitHub Actions. Lastly, the working application is packaged in Docker for deployment
via Nginx. This automatic pipeline enables the identification of mistakes at an early
stage and stable releases.


        It is obvious from the figure how these steps link with our planning and
monitoring which ensure development is efficient and reliable. This helps us to follow
our hybrid Agile approach, allowing for regular updates without compromising the
stability of the system.




                       Figure 3.5   CI/CD Pipeline for LexiFlow




3.5     System Requirement Analysis


        This section gives details of system requirements that includes all hardware,
software and other requirements. They will be helpful for fulfilling the functional and
performance requirements, and can ensure successful development and operation of
the above system.




3.5.1   Hardware Requirements


        These are the hardware requirements for the optimal deployment and user
experience of the LexiFlow system:




                                          28
(a)     Server: A dedicated server equipped with at least 16 GB of RAM, 8 CPU cores,
        and 500 GB of SSD storage for the back-end processing, database management
        and API requests. In addition, for effectively processing audio material, at least
        8GB of graphics memory is necessary, particularly when dealing with tasks
        such as automatic speech recognition and machine translation.

(b)     Development Machines:          To run development environments, testing
        frameworks, and local databases, development machines should have a
        minimum of 8 GB of RAM, enough storage (at least 256 GB SSD), and a
        modern multi-core processor.

(c)     Client Devices: Users should be able to use devices that have at least 4 GB
        of RAM, and a modern browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari) to interact with the
        LexiFlow web application.




3.5.2   Software Requirements


        The LexiFlow system will require the following software components:


(a)     Operating System: An operating system that is Linux-based (e.g., Ubuntu
        22.04 or later) for the server environment to ensure stability and performance.

(b)     Web Server: Nginx as the web server to handle HTTP requests and serve the
        LexiFlow web application.

(c)     Database:    MongoDB for storing user data, audio/video metadata, and
        processed subtitles.

(d)     Version Control: Git to manage code changes and track version history.

(e)     Network Protocols: SSH to securely access the server remotly.

(f)     IDE: Visual Studio Code, providing features like code completion, debugging,
        and version control integration.

(g)     Visual Design Tools: Enterprise Architect to design the system architecture
        and UML diagrams. Figma to create user interface mockups.




                                           29
3.6    Chapter Summary


       This chapter guides through the approach that was taken by LexiFlow
with special emphasis on the hybrid Agile framework that combines both iterative
development with structured phases. That way, the project could remain flexible enough
to adapt to changing needs while still maintaining structured milestone checks. The
technology stack has also been discussed in detail with the rationale of each decision.
Lastly, the hardware and software requirements are also outlined, which sets the stage
of a successful implementation in the subsequent phases.




                                          30
                                     CHAPTER 4




                   REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS AND DESIGN




4.1    Introduction


       This chapter provides an overview of the requirement analysis and design phases
for the LexiFlow project, which guides the development of a systematically organised
language learning system designed for the UTM community. The chapter adheres
to a systematic way of identification and analysis of specific requirements of various
stakeholders through structured interactions like surveys and interviews.


       After the detailed requirement analysis is conducted, the chapter then proceeds
to design the system. This involves designing a system architecture that supports
seamless interaction between LexiFlow’s various components. This involves designing
the modular structure of the system and how those different modules communicate with
each other, ensuring that the architecture achieves the project’s stated goals.




4.2    Requirements Gathering and Analysis


       The requirements for the LexiFlow project were analysed meticulously through
an interview session with the stakeholders from UTM Language Academy. This was
an essential process in detailing the limitations of the existing system and what specific
needs the stakeholders have for the proposed LexiFlow platform. Their feedback
highlighted the critical need for an automated solution that effectively processes
authentic Mandarin content, providing learners with synchronized audio, pinyin, and
English translations.


       A greater emphasis was placed during the analysis on the following key
functionalities identified as necessary for improving the overall effectiveness of the

                                           31
system: features for user evaluation, such as flashcards, quizzes and others as well as
themed playlist features to ensure learning is more organized and structured. These
kinds of features are expected to improve the learning process. Figure 4.1 below details
the use case diagram of LexiFlow implementing the features stated previously.




                     Figure 4.1   Use Case Diagram of LexiFlow



       The requirement analysis phase ended with a proper understanding of the
system specifications and functionalities. Such requirements are aimed at guiding
the subsequent phases in the design and development of a system. Although the
project is deliberately designed to align with the needs and expectations of the UTM
community, LexiFlow also aims to overcome the deficiencies of the current system
through innovative features that enhance user experience and safety. Such an approach


                                          32
is likely to result in the development of a final product well tailored to satisfy specific
demands of the UTM community.




4.2.1   Functional Requirements


        The functional requirements of LexiFlow are derived from the use case diagram
(Figure 4.1) and are shown in Table 4.1.

              Table 4.1    Functional Requirements of LexiFlow System

        ID          Name            Description

                                    Allows new users to register and create an
     UC01      Create Account
                                    account in the system.
                                    Enables registered users to authenticate and
     UC02            Login
                                    access the system.
                                    Allows users to view and update their personal
     UC03       Manage Profile
                                    information and preferences.
               Process YouTube      Handles the processing of YouTube video URLs
     UC04
                     URL            for content extraction.
                Upload Local        Enables users to upload media files from their
     UC05
                    Media           local device for processing.
                   Generate         Automatically creates subtitles for processed
     UC06
                   Subtitles        video content.
               Find Translated      Provides functionality to locate translated
     UC07
                   Content          versions of content.
                 Search Word        Allows users to search for definitions of words
     UC08
                  Definition        within the learning module.
                                    Enables users to save new vocabulary words for
     UC09      Save Vocabulary
                                    later review.
                                    Allows users to bookmark specific video
     UC10      Bookmark Video
                                    segments for future reference.

                                                              (Continued on next page)



                                            33
    (Continued from previous page)

      ID            Name             Description

                Crowd-Report         Provides a mechanism for users to collabora-
     UC11
               Translation Error     tively report translation errors.
                Review Saved         Enables users to review and practice vocabulary
     UC12
                  Vocabulary         they have previously saved.
                    Export           Allows users to export their vocabulary lists for
     UC13
                Vocabulary list      use outside the system.
                                     Automatically creates quizes from saved vocab-
     UC14      Generate Quizes
                                     ulary for study purposes.




       As an example, the use case for processing YouTube URLs (UC04), shown in
Table 4.2, involves key actors such as the user and the YouTube Data API. The system
extracts video content by validating the URL, retrieving metadata, and checking the
duration of the video.


       All use cases, including detailed descriptions of the normal flow, alternative
flows (such as handling invalid duration or restricted content), and exception flows, are
fully documented in the Software Requirements Specification (SRS). The complete use
case specifications can be found in Appendix ??.

        Table 4.2   Use Case Description for UC04 <Process YouTube URL>

 Use Case ID                 UC04
 Use Case Name               Process YouTube URL
 Description                 This use case allows an authenticated user to submit
                             a YouTube video URL for automated transcription,
                             translation, and synchronized subtitle generation within
                             LexiFlow.
 Actor(s)                    User, YouTube Data API
 Pre-conditions              1.    The user is successfully logged into their LexiFlow
                             account.



                                             34
                        2.     The LexiFlow system has internet access to reach
                        YouTube.
                        3. System has active connection to YouTube Data API
Normal Flow (NF)        1. User navigates to ”Upload/Process Content” section
                        2. User selects option to process YouTube URL
                        3. User inputs valid YouTube video URL
                        4. User submits URL for processing
                        5. System validates URL and fetches video stream
                        6. System initiates content processing pipeline
                        7. System notifies user that processing has started
Alternative Flow (AF)   AF1: Invalid YouTube URL
                             1. If URL is invalid or video not found:
                               1.1 System displays ”Invalid YouTube URL” error
                               1.2 Prompts user to enter correct URL
                        AF2: Restricted/Private Video
                             1. If video is regionally restricted or private:
                               1.1 System displays access restriction error
                               1.2 Use case terminates unsuccessfully
Exception Flow (EF)     EF1: Processing Pipeline Failure
                             1. If content processing encounters critical error:
                               1.1 System logs detailed error
                               1.2 Displays generic failure message
                               1.3 Use case terminates unsuccessfully
                        EF2: Network Error During Fetch
                             1. If network issue prevents video fetching:
                               1.1 System displays network error message
                               1.2 Prompts user to check connection
                               1.3 Use case terminates unsuccessfully
Post-conditions         1. YouTube video content is successfully extracted
                        2. Content processing pipeline is initiated
                        3. User receives processing status notification
Special Requirements    1. System has internet access to reach YouTube
                        2. YouTube video processing capabilities



                                         35
4.2.2    Non-Functional Requirements


         Non-functional requirements specify quality attributes, system performance and
constraints that LexiFlow must satisfy. These requirements are crucial for ensuring the
system’s reliability, usability, and maintainability. A list of non-functional requirements
is presented in Table 4.3.

                       Table 4.3   Non-Functional Requirements

         ID          Type           Description
                                    The system shall process and validate YouTube
        NFR-
                 Performance        URLs within 3 seconds to ensure responsive user
        001
                                    experience.
        NFR-                        The system shall support display text in at least
                 Localization
        002                         two languages: English and Mandarin.
        NFR-                        System data shall be backed up automatically
                    Backup
        003                         every 24 hours and stored securely




4.3      Architectural Design


         The Pipe and Filter architectural pattern is a method of structuring data
processing as a series of discrete components, called filters, linked together by pipes.
Every filter takes the data, applies a particular transformation or processing and outputs
the transformed data to the next filter through a pipe. Scalability, maintainability, and
reusability are improved due to the modular approach, with filters being developed,
tested, and replaced separately. The clear separation of concerns also makes system
extensions and debugging easier in the future.


         In the audio processing pipeline of LexiFlow, each filter can perform a unique
function like voice activity detection, speech recognition, translation, and pinyin
generation, making the Pipe and Filter pattern suitable.          The versatility of this
modularity makes it simple to add new processing steps or to substitute out old steps
without changing the system architecture.


                                            36
        The architecture of the LexiFlow system is composed of various components
as depicted in Figure 4.2:


(a)     User Interface (UI): The user interface (UI) is created using React 18, providing
        an interactive application for users to upload media, view subtitles, and manage
        vocabulary. It serves as the data source in the Pipe and Filter architecture.

(b)     Backend Services: The back end services are the implementation on top of
        Node.js and FastAPI, which process audio and video content, and are regarded
        as pipes in the Pipe and Filter architecture.

(c)     Audio Processing Pipeline: These are a sequence of filters that process
        the voice signals to detect any voice activity (SileroVAD), automatic speech
        recognition (Whisper), translation (SeamlessM4Tv2), and generation of pinyin
        (pinyin).

(d)     Database: User profiles, processed content metadata, subtitles and vocabulary
        lists are stored in MongoDB. In the Pipe and Filter design, it is viewed as the
        place to ”sink” data.




                       Figure 4.2    LexiFlow System Architecture

* The figure illustrates the Pipe and Filter architecture of LexiFlow, showing the modular
processing components and their interactions.




                                              37
4.4    Chapter Summary


       Chapter 4 discusses the requirements analysis and system design of the LexiFlow
system, which presents an in-depth exploration of the development of a language
learning platform. In its initial phase, the chapter systematically identifies the needs
of the stakeholders, laying the groundwork for the detailed documentation of these
requirements in the Software Requirements Specification (SRS, Appendix ??) and
Software Design Document (SDD, Appendix ??).             It also explains the pipeline
architecture approach which is used to build an efficient and scalable system and
the user interface design, which is essential for further improving the usability and the
system functionality. This systematic approach not only meets the goals of the project,
but also provides a solid structural foundation for the successful implementation and
deployment of LexiFlow. An automated end-to-end test and User Acceptance Testing
was then performed to validate the system, and this validation was documented in a
Software Test Document as opposed to a separate, standalone Software Test Document,
as described in Chapter 5 and Appendices ?? and ??.




                                           38
                                                        CHAPTER 5




                                             SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION




5.1        Introduction


           This chapter delves into the actual development of LexiFlow. It first revisits the
Pipe and Filter design pattern introduced in Chapter 4 and demonstrates how it was
realized in the actual codebase. It then examines the core learning features: subtitle
generation, flashcards, quizzes, and crowdsourced error reporting.




5.2        Architecture in Practice: Pipe and Filter


           Chapter 4 put forward a Pipe and Filter architectural style for the media-
processing subsystem. Each stage of subtitle generation is its own filter: it takes
the previous stage’s output, applies its transformation, and hands its own output
downstream, with no stage aware of anything past its immediate neighbour. Figure 5.1
shows how this played out. A source video gets downloaded and normalised by FFmpeg,
transcribed by a cloud Whisper API, translated by an LLM, then finally annotated with
pinyin and HSK levels before it’s saved as a subtitle document.




              Source             FFmpeg          Whisper Large v3           LLM Translator      PyPinyin +   Subtitle document
        (YouTube URL via       16 kHz mono         Turbo (ASR)           (DeepSeek-V4-Flash,   HSK tagging   (stored, served to
      yt-dlp / local upload)     PCM/MP3            transcribe              time-chunked)                         frontend)




          Figure 5.1           Pipe and Filter realisation of the media-processing pipeline




                                                                    39
       Figure 5.2 shows the orchestrator that wires these filters together. Every step
independently reports its own progress and elapsed time, and if one step fails, none of
the other filters need to know why they simply receive no input.


async def run_pipeline(job_id, url, is_local=False):
      # 1. Download (yt-dlp) or accept local upload
      file_path = await asyncio.to_thread(download_video, url, job_id)


      # 2. Transcribe (Whisper Large v3 Turbo, FFmpeg-normalised audio)
      transcription = await asyncio.to_thread(api_transcribe, file_path)


      # 3. Translate (LLM, time-chunked) + pinyin/HSK annotation
      translation = await asyncio.to_thread(api_translate, transcription)


      # 4. Post-process into the final subtitle document shape
      end_result = await asyncio.to_thread(api_postprocess, translation)
      Figure 5.2 Simplified pipeline orchestrator (backend-fastapi/api.py)




       Each filter can be independently replaced. The transcription filter, for example,
was moved from a locally-hosted Whisper model over to a cloud Whisper API midway
through development, and nothing before or after it had to change, since the contract
between stages, a list of timestamped text segments, stayed the same throughout.




5.3    Core Feature: Generate Subtitles (UC06)


       Subtitle generation is the entry point to every other feature in LexiFlow. When
a video gets submitted, the Whisper Large v3 Turbo automatic speech recognition
model transcribes it, a chat-completion language model translates it sentence-by-
sentence into English, and then PyPinyin adds tone-marked pinyin along with per-
character HSK difficulty levels. Figure 5.3 shows the translation filter. Segments get
batched into five-minute time windows, which gives the model cross-sentence context

                                          40
without risking a truncated response, and the model has to return one JSON translation
per input sentence, in order.


SYSTEM_PROMPT = (
     "...Respond with a JSON object of the exact form "
     ’{{"translations": ["...", ...]}} containing exactly ’
     "{count} strings, in the same order as the input...")


for chunk in _chunk_by_time(segments, chunk_seconds=300):
     translations = _request_translations(chunk_texts, ...)
     for segment, translated_text in zip(chunk, translations):
        segment["translated_text"] = translated_text
Figure       5.3 Simplified       LLM         translation                            filter
(backend-fastapi/src/llm/translator.py)




       The subtitle that comes out gets rendered on the watch page as a bilingual,
pinyin-annotated transcript synced to the video. Every Chinese token is individually
tappable: tapping a character or word triggers an instant CC-CEDICT dictionary lookup
(Figure 5.4) without playback stopping, which directly fulfils Search Word Definition
(UC08) and feeds Save Vocabulary (UC09).




    Figure 5.4    Bilingual subtitle playback with tap-to-look-up dictionary panel




                                          41
5.4       Core Feature: Generate and Review Flashcards (UC13)


          Saved vocabulary gets reinforced through a spaced-repetition flashcard system
built on the FSRS (Free Spaced Repetition Scheduler) algorithm, the same model
behind the modern Anki ecosystem. Figure 5.5 shows how the scheduled gap for a
single item stretches out across successful reviews. Early ones sit a day or two apart.
Items you’ve got down get pushed weeks into the future, so review effort lands where
it actually matters.


                                                                  Example FSRS Scheduled-Interval Growth for One Vocabulary 90d
                                                                                                                             Item
               Scheduled interval until next review (days)




                                                             80

                                                             60                                                          50d

                                                             40
                                                                                                               28d

                                                             20                                       15d
                                                                                             8d
                                                                    1d      2d      4d
                                                             0
                                                                     1       2      3         4         5       6        7       8
                                                                                   Consecutive "Good" review number

      Figure 5.5                                             Example FSRS scheduled-interval growth for one vocabulary item




          Figure                                              5.6        shows   the     core     scheduling         function.       Each   grade
(Again/Hard/Good/Easy) recomputes the item’s Stability and Difficulty, then works
out the next review date straight from the published FSRS weight parameters. We built
this in-house rather than leaning on a third-party scheduling service.




                                                                                                42
function calculateFsrs(card, rating) {
     let { stability, difficulty, state } = card;
     if (card.state === 0 || stability === 0) {
             difficulty = clamp(FSRS_W[4] - FSRS_W[5] * (rating - 3), 1, 10);
             stability    = rating === 1
                 ? FSRS_W[0]
                 : FSRS_W[1] + FSRS_W[2] * (rating - 2)
                      + FSRS_W[3] * Math.pow(rating - 1, 0.5);
     } else {
             const r = Math.pow(1 + 0.1 * (card.elapsedDays / stability), -1);
             difficulty = clamp(difficulty - FSRS_W[6] * (rating - 3), 1, 10);
             stability = /* FSRS stability-growth formula, rating-dependent */ ...;
     }
     const scheduledDays = clamp(Math.round(stability), 1, 365);
     return { stability, difficulty, scheduledDays, nextReviewDate: ... };
}
Figure 5.6    Simplified FSRS scheduler (backend-node/.../flashcards.service.js)




         The frontend shows this as a flip-style card. The front displays only the Chinese
word, and flipping it reveals pinyin and meaning next to the four grading buttons, each
labelled with its resulting interval (Figure 5.7) so the learner sees the consequence of
their self-assessment right away.




                                            43
         Figure 5.7   Flashcard review: back face with recall grading buttons




5.5    Core Feature: Generate Quizzes (UC14)


       LexiFlow can generate a quiz on demand from any vocabulary list, incorporating
four question types: multiple choice, fill-in-the-blank, true/false, and short answer
(Figure 5.8). For fill-in-the-blank, it just masks the target word inside a saved example
sentence. Multiple-choice and true/false need something extra, though, plausible wrong
answers, the distractors.




                 Figure 5.8   A generated short-answer quiz question




                                           44
       Short-answer responses are trickier. You can’t grade them by exact string
matching, since one correct answer might be worded a dozen different ways. Figure 5.9
shows the grading filter: an exact match short-circuits right away, and if not, the
reference answer and the learner’s response both go to an LLM, which has to hand back
a structured verdict.


def evaluate_short_answer(self, correct_reference, user_response):
      if ref_clean == resp_clean:
             return {"score": 1.0, "feedback": "Exact", "is_correct": True}


      content = self.provider.chat_complete(
             system=SYSTEM_PROMPT, user=json.dumps({...}), json_mode=True)
      result = json.loads(content)
      return {"score": result["score"], "feedback": result["feedback"],
                 "is_correct": result["is_correct"]}
Figure 5.9    Simplified short-answer judge (backend-fastapi/services/quiz/judge.py)




       Distractor selection for multiple-choice questions combines that same LLM-
based plausibility check with two lightweight local heuristics: a pinyin Levenshtein-
distance score (catching words that sound alike) and a radical/Unicode similarity score
(catching ones that look alike). The three scores get summed, then the top candidates
from the same HSK tier win out, so a distractor stays believable without ever sneaking
in as an accidental synonym of the right answer.




5.6    Core Feature: Crowd-Reporting of Translation Errors (UC11)


       Anyone watching can flag a subtitle line as incorrect, selecting a category:
translation, pinyin, transcription, or other (Figure 5.10). However, a line is only
escalated for correction after it clears a deliberately conservative dual threshold
(Figure 5.11): at least three different reporters, and at least 25% of everyone who
actually saw that line. So one annoyed viewer can’t flag stuff on their own.

                                          45
        Figure 5.10    Reporting a subtitle line and choosing an error category




const FLAG_MIN_REPORTS = 3;
const FLAG_THRESHOLD_PERCENT = 0.25;
...
flagged: c.count >= FLAG_MIN_REPORTS
        && (c.count / viewerCount) >= FLAG_THRESHOLD_PERCENT
Figure 5.11 Simplified flag threshold (backend-node/.../reports.service.js)




       Once it’s flagged, the line gets fixed right away instead of sitting in a queue for
a human moderator. The reported segment, three segments of surrounding context,
and an instruction tied to the specific error category all get sent to Meta’s Llama 3.3
70B model, which is locked to JSON-mode output. Critically, the original timestamps
are always re-applied server-side rather than trusted to the model, so a hallucinated
value can’t ever knock the subtitle out of sync with the audio, and the fix is saved as a
separate, reversible patch instead of overwriting the original transcription.




                                           46
5.7    Core Feature: Browser Extension


       For users who wish to access LexiFlow’s bilingual subtitles on content they are
already watching, a companion browser extension overlays graded Chinese subtitles,
word lookup, and text-to-speech directly onto the YouTube player, eliminating the need
to copy video URLs into the main platform.




           Figure 5.12    LexiFlow browser extension overlay on YouTube




5.8    DevOps and Deployment


       Figure 5.13 lays out where each piece of the system actually lives. The frontend
is a static build served from Vercel’s edge CDN. The Node.js backend, the FastAPI
worker, and PostgreSQL all sit together on one Tencent Cloud Lighthouse VM through
Docker Compose, with a SaladPool instance kept around as a rarely-touched failover
worker. On every push to main, GitHub Actions builds and pushes a container image
to GHCR, then redeploys the VM on its own, so there’s no manual deployment step. All
AI inference: transcription, translation, quiz grading, segment correction, is delegated
to externally hosted language models (Whisper Large v3 Turbo, DeepSeek-V4-Flash,
and Llama 3.3 70B), which means the deployment needs no GPU.



                                          47
                                                     User Browser



                                                    Vercel Edge CDN
                                               (React/TypeScript frontend)                     Hosted language models
                                                                                               (Whisper, DeepSeek-V4,
                                                                                  API calls        Llama 3.3 70B)


                                 failover
              SaladPool           (rare)       Tencent Cloud Lighthouse VM
           FastAPI worker                   Docker Compose: Node.js backend +   queue + docs        MongoDB Atlas
           (failover only)                     FastAPI worker + PostgreSQL                        (job queue + raw
                                                                                                 subtitle documents)



                                                               deploys




                                                 GitHub Actions -> GHCR
                                                 (CI/CD on push to main)




                             Figure 5.13    LexiFlow deployment topology




5.9    Verification and Validation


       The system was validated using two distinct methods.                                          The first was an
automated end-to-end Playwright suite which was executed directly against the live
test deployment from UC01-04 to UC13-14. Of 30 test cases, 25 passed, 4 failed,
and 1 was intentionally skipped. These failures were not due to problems with the test
scripts but rather stemmed from two real, reproducible defects: one was the onboarding
tour which could not be dismissed and the other was a missing single-page-application
fallback route. Further details of the methodology, per test-case results and root cause
analysis are provided in Appendix ??. Then came User Acceptance Testing, conducted
with four users, representing four user groups identified in Chapter 4: a Mandarin
learner who has been having trouble with the language, a self-directed language learner
who requires some domain-specific vocabulary, a native speaker reviewer to ensure
the correctness of the transcription and translation, and the instructor stakeholder.
They returned feedback on the merit of the Tap-to-Look-Up, Vocabulary-Saving, and
Quiz-Generation flows. It also brought two honest problems to the fore for later:
the lack of accuracy when compared to commercial-grade captioning and the lack of
classroom-management features, both of which were not functional requirements in



                                                          48
Chapter 4. Full participant profiles, scenarios and acceptance-criteria analysis is found
in Appendix ??.




5.10   Chapter Summary


       This chapter has shown how the Pipe and Filter architecture described in Chapter
4 transitioned into a pipeline where each stage can be independently replaced, and
explored the four primary learning features , subtitle generation, flashcards, quizzes,
and crowdsourced corrections. Each one combines a deterministic local algorithm
(FSRS, threshold checks, pinyin/visual similarity) with an LLM only when open-ended
judgement is required. Deployment was intentionally kept lightweight; all AI inference
was delegated to external APIs. Through automated end-to-end testing and User
Acceptance Testing, the system’s overall functionality was confirmed, and all identified
defects traced back to specific, repeatable root causes rather than to architectural flaws.




                                            49
                                    CHAPTER 6




                                   CONCLUSION




6.1    Introduction


       This chapter reviews LexiFlow’s development, its outcomes, and the extent to
which the project met its initial objectives. The system has been fully built, tested
through automated end-to-end testing and User Acceptance Testing, and deployed on
live infrastructure. The focus here is on the results, the key successes, and areas
identified for future improvement. Through continuous development and refinement,
LexiFlow has the potential to become a reliable and widely adopted language learning
platform for universities and beyond.




6.2    Achievement of Project Objectives


       The LexiFlow project had four main goals, which were specified in Section 1.4
of this paper. They were all designed to make language learning easier.


(a)    Elicit full Requirements from Stakeholders: The first goal was to gather a
       complete set of requirements from stakeholders. This was accomplished by
       interviewing stakeholders in a round-robin fashion. Through these discussions,
       a clear picture emerged of the language-learning challenges faced by users
       and the extent of language barriers within the UTM community.              These
       requirements became functional and non-functional specifications for the
       project, all documented in the Software Requirements Specification (SRS) in
       Appendix ??. This objective was successfully completed.

(b)    Design a Web-Based Platform: The second objective was to design a web-
       based platform with an appropriate architecture. LexiFlow was designed around
       a Pipe and Filter architecture. React 18 for the front end enabled the creation of

                                          50
       a user-friendly and responsive interface, while Python and Node.js were used
       on the back end. The entire detailed design and documentation for the system
       is contained in the Software Design Document (SDD) (see Appendix ??). This
       objective was also successfully achieved.

(c)    Develop the Full Platform: The third objective was to build the full language
       learning platform. This was achieved by implementing the complete audio
       processing pipeline — voice activity detection, automatic speech recognition,
       translation, and pinyin generation, alongside the interactive learning features:
       bilingual subtitle playback, flashcards, quizzes, and crowdsourced error
       correction. All features were derived directly from the stakeholder requirements
       and design specifications documented in Chapters 3 and 4.

(d)    Evaluate and Test the Functionality: The final objective was to validate
       how well LexiFlow performs and enhances the language learning experience.
       This was carried out through an automated end-to-end Playwright test suite
       covering use cases UC01 through UC14, yielding 25 passes out of 30 test cases
       with two identified defects, and through User Acceptance Testing with four
       representative users from the UTM community. The results are documented in
       the Test Execution Report (Appendix ??) and UAT Report (Appendix ??). This
       objective is considered complete.




6.3    Service Enhancement and Practical Value


       LexiFlow does more than meet the goals it set out to achieve. It delivers on two of
the three dimensions commonly used to evaluate whether a system is genuinely useful:
service improvement and quality-of-life improvement for its users. Commercial value
has not yet been assessed, as no pricing model or market testing has been conducted.
In terms of service quality, the stakeholder interview (Appendix ??) revealed that each
3-minute clip of authentic Mandarin content required 10 to 30 minutes of manual
work to transcribe, translate, and annotate with pinyin. This has been replaced by a
pipeline that learners and teachers can trigger at will, and a crowd-correction feature
allows for ongoing improvement without requiring that work to be repeated. This
represents a significant change from the situation described by stakeholders, where


                                           51
very little authentic content was used due to the high cost of preparation. Quality-
of-life improvements were independently confirmed during UAT (Appendix ??). One
struggling student reported that this platform would have helped them achieve a better
result on their actual exam. A native Mandarin speaker described using the platform
daily to reduce real-world miscommunication in workplace settings , problems they had
never encountered in classroom activities or through generic applications and textbooks.
These are not assumed benefits but outcomes that users explicitly reported, reflecting
genuine improvements in their learning and spoken communication confidence.




6.4    Suggestions for Future Improvement


       Building on findings from automated testing and UAT, the following
improvements are recommended for future versions of LexiFlow. First are the two
known defects identified during test execution. The onboarding tour that cannot be
dismissed (LF-BUG-01) and a missing SPA fallback route, which results in a raw 404
error when navigating directly to a URL (LF-BUG-02). Both need to be addressed
before any production rollout: one prevents core navigation for first-time visitors, while
the other affects returning users who navigate directly via URL. Secondly, there is the
accuracy gap that the native-speaker UAT participant pointed out between the faster-
whisper in LexiFlow’s self-hosted pipeline and commercial-grade auto-captioning on
YouTube. This accuracy gap should be narrowed in future development. The crowd-
reporting and AI-assisted correction feature described in Chapter 5 is well-suited for
addressing this gap over time; measuring its long-term effectiveness in a subsequent
evaluation round would be worthwhile. Third, and most significantly, is the need for
a classroom-management module , a module that allows lecturers to assign videos or
quizzes to a class and monitor each student’s progress through a dedicated dashboard.
It was a significant unmet need expressed by instructor stakeholders during UAT and
was not part of the initial functional requirements, making it a clear priority for the
next development phase. Beyond the aforementioned evidence-based priorities is
the decision to replace the large multilingual model with a lighter Mandarin-specific
local model, reducing processing time and server VRAM and thus reducing operating
costs. Further reductions in runtime and resource consumption could be achieved by


                                           52
adopting leaner inference runtimes such as ONNX or TensorRT. All these changes
combined would make LexiFlow more precise, more convenient for institutions and
more economical to operate.




                                      53
                               REFERENCES




1.   Stephen D. Krashen. The input hypothesis : issues and implications. Longman,
     1985. URL https://cir.nii.ac.jp/crid/1130282270300036096.

2.   Richard E. Mayer. Multimedia Learning. Cambridge University Press, 2
     edition, 2009.

3.   Margaret Cychosz, Anele Villanueva, and Adriana Weisleder.         Efficient
     estimation of children’s language exposure in two bilingual communities.
     Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 64(10):3843–3866,
     2021. doi: 10.1044/2021\ JSLHR-20-00755. URL https://pubs.asha.
     org/doi/abs/10.1044/2021_JSLHR-20-00755.

4.   Anna Elizabeth Gowenlock, Courtenay Norbury, and Jennifer M. Rodd.
     Exposure to language in video and its impact on linguistic development in
     children aged 3–11: A scoping review. Journal of Cognition, Jul 2024. doi:
     10.5334/joc.385.

5.   Chinese Testing International. Hsk test syllabus, 2025. URL https://www.
     chinesetest.cn/HSK. Official HSK Chinese Proficiency Standards.

6.   Victoria Rodrigo, Stephen Krashen, and Barry Gribbons. The effectiveness
     of two comprehensible-input approaches to foreign language instruction at
     the intermediate level.   System, 32(1):53–60, 2004.     ISSN 0346-251X.
     doi:   https://doi.org/10.1016/j.system.2003.08.003.   URL https://www.
     sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0346251X03000964.

7.   Stephen Krashen and Beniko Mason. Sustained silent reading in foreign
     language education: An update. Turkish Online Journal of English Language
     Teaching, 2:70–73, 01 2017.

8.   Linda Jones and Jan Plass. Supporting listening comprehension and vocabulary
     acquisition in french with multimedia annotations. The Modern Language
     Journal, 86:546 – 561, 12 2002. doi: 10.1111/1540-4781.00160.




                                      54
 9.   Helen Shen. Imagery and verbal coding approaches in chinese vocabulary
      instruction. Language Teaching Research, 14:485–499, 10 2010. doi: 10.
      1177/1362168810375370.

10.   Mingyue Li and Mairin Hennebry-Leung. Effects of monolingual and bilingual
      subtitles on l2 vocabulary acquisition.    International Review of Applied
      Linguistics in Language Teaching, 62, 12 2022. doi: 10.1515/iral-2022-0034.

11.   Michael Everson. Best practices in teaching logographic and non-roman
      writing systems to l2 learners. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 31,
      03 2011. doi: 10.1017/S0267190511000171.

12.   HELEN H. SHEN and CHUANREN KE.                  Radical awareness and word
      acquisition among nonnative learners of chinese. The Modern Language
      Journal, 91(1):97–111, 2007. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-4781.2007.
      00511.x. URL https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/
      j.1540-4781.2007.00511.x.

13.   Lijuan Ye. Shall we delay teaching characters in teaching chinese as a foreign
      language? Foreign Language Annals, 46, 12 2013. doi: 10.1111/flan.12049.

14.   Yue Wang, Michelle Spence, Allard Jongman, and Joan Sereno. Training
      american listeners to perceive mandarin tone. The Journal of the Acoustical
      Society of America, 106:3649–58, 12 1999. doi: 10.1121/1.428217.

15.   Hu Xu and Wei Hu. Review of Enhancements and limitations to ICT-based
      informal language learning: Emerging research and opportunities, volume 24.
      IGI Global, 06 2020. ISBN 9781799821168. doi: 10125/44724. URL http:
      //hdl.handle.net/10125/4472.

16.   Gilbert Dizon and John M. Gayed. An exploratory study on the use of
      interactive video via netflix to improve second language aural vocabulary
      learning. AsiaCALL Online Journal, 12(5):100–113, Oct. 2021. URL https:
      //asiacall.info/acoj/index.php/journal/article/view/79.

17.   Geòrgia Pujadas and Carmen Muñoz. When to switch captions off? exploring
      the effects of l2 proficiency and vocabulary knowledge on comprehension of
      captioned and uncaptioned tv. Studies in Second Language Learning and
      Teaching, 06 2024. doi: 10.14746/ssllt.38036.



                                       55
18.   Sai Srujana Buddi, Utkarsh Oggy Sarawgi, Tashweena Heeramun, Karan
      Sawnhey, Ed Yanosik, Saravana Rathinam, and Saurabh Adya. Efficient
      multimodal neural networks for trigger-less voice assistants, 2023. URL
      https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.12063.

19.   IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing,
      ICASSP 2019, Brighton, United Kingdom, May 12-17, 2019, 2019. IEEE.
      ISBN 978-1-4799-8131-1.        URL http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/
      mostRecentIssue.jsp?punumber=8671773.

20.   Yefei Chen, Shuai Wang, Yanmin Qian, and Kai Yu. End-to-end speaker-
      dependent voice activity detection, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
      2009.09906.

21.   Satyam Kumar, Sai Srujana Buddi, Utkarsh Oggy Sarawgi, Vineet Garg,
      Shivesh Ranjan, Ognjen (Oggi) Rudovic, Ahmed Hussen Abdelaziz, and
      Saurabh Adya. Comparative analysis of personalized voice activity detection
      systems: Assessing real-world effectiveness. In Interspeech, 2024. URL
      https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09443.

22.   Linrong Pan, Chenglong Jiang, Gaoze Hou, and Ying Gao. Teochew-wild: The
      first in-the-wild teochew dataset with orthographic annotations. In Proceedings
      of the 2025 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for
      Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, 05 2025. doi:
      10.48550/arXiv.2505.05056.

23.   Silero Team. Silero vad: pre-trained enterprise-grade voice activity detector
      (vad), number detector and language classifier.      https://github.com/
      snakers4/silero-vad, 2024.

24.   Biing-Hwang Juang and Lawrence R Rabiner. Automatic speech recognition–a
      brief history of the technology development. Georgia Institute of Technology.
      Atlanta Rutgers University and the University of California. Santa Barbara, 1
      (67):1, 2005.

25.   Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Tao Xu, Greg Brockman, Christine McLeavey,
      and Ilya Sutskever. Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak supervision.
      In International conference on machine learning, pages 28492–28518. PMLR,
      2023.

                                        56
26.   Ngadiso Sutomo. The implementation of automated speech recognition (asr)
      in elt classroom: A systematic literature review from 2012-2023. VELES
      (Voices of English Language Education Society), 7:816–828, 01 2024. doi:
      10.29408/veles.v7i3.23978.

27.   Hany Hassan, Anthony Aue, Chang Chen, Vishal Chowdhary, Jonathan Clark,
      Christian Federmann, Xuedong Huang, Marcin Junczys-Dowmunt, William
      Lewis, Mu Li, et al. Achieving human parity on automatic chinese to english
      news translation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.05567, 2018.

28.   Loı̈c Barrault, Yu-An Chung, Mariano Coria Meglioli, David Dale, Ning Dong,
      Mark Duppenthaler, Paul-Ambroise Duquenne, Brian Ellis, Hady Elsahar,
      Justin Haaheim, et al. Seamless: Multilingual expressive and streaming speech
      translation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.05187, 2023.

29.   Elisabet Titik Murtisari, Andreas Kukuh Kristianto, and Gary Bonar. Self-
      directed use of machine translation among language learners: Does it lead to
      disruptive l2 avoidance? Foreign Language Annals, 57(4):1094–1114, 2024.
      doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/flan.12768. URL https://onlinelibrary.
      wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/flan.12768.

30.   Wantana Singhto and Nuttaporn Phakdee. Adopting a combination of scrum
      and waterfall methodologies in developing tailor-made saas products for thai
      service and manufacturing smes. In 2016 International Computer Science
      and Engineering Conference (ICSEC), pages 1–6, 2016. doi: 10.1109/ICSEC.
      2016.7859882.

31.   Nikson Muay, Eko Sediyono, and Johan Tambotoh. Integration waterfall and
      scrum methodology in the development of simarga web application. Jurnal
      RESTI (Rekayasa Sistem dan Teknologi Informasi), 8:223–233, 04 2024. doi:
      10.29207/resti.v8i2.5652.

32.   Seamless Communication, Loı̈c Barrault, Yu-An Chung, Mariano Coria
      Meglioli, David Dale, Ning Dong, Mark Duppenthaler, Paul-Ambroise
      Duquenne, Brian Ellis, Hady Elsahar, Justin Haaheim, John Hoffman, Min-
      Jae Hwang, Hirofumi Inaguma, Christopher Klaiber, Ilia Kulikov, Pengwei
      Li, Daniel Licht, Jean Maillard, Ruslan Mavlyutov, Alice Rakotoarison,
      Kaushik Ram Sadagopan, Abinesh Ramakrishnan, Tuan Tran, Guillaume


                                       57
Wenzek, Yilin Yang, Ethan Ye, Ivan Evtimov, Pierre Fernandez, Cynthia Gao,
Prangthip Hansanti, Elahe Kalbassi, Amanda Kallet, Artyom Kozhevnikov,
Gabriel Mejia Gonzalez, Robin San Roman, Christophe Touret, Corinne
Wong, Carleigh Wood, Bokai Yu, Pierre Andrews, Can Balioglu, Peng-
Jen Chen, Marta R. Costa-jussà, Maha Elbayad, Hongyu Gong, Francisco
Guzmán, Kevin Heffernan, Somya Jain, Justine Kao, Ann Lee, Xutai Ma,
Alex Mourachko, Benjamin Peloquin, Juan Pino, Sravya Popuri, Christophe
Ropers, Safiyyah Saleem, Holger Schwenk, Anna Sun, Paden Tomasello,
Changhan Wang, Jeff Wang, Skyler Wang, and Mary Williamson. Seamless:
Multilingual expressive and streaming speech translation, 2023. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2312.05187.




                               58
